---
title: Introduction to Creative Coding
published_at: 2025-03-06
snippet: Week 01 01
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---

# Homework

### 1. Speak to three of your classmates about the [Rafaël Rozendaal](https://www.newrafael.com/internet/ "Link") work you chose last session, and document your discussions on your blog. Ask each of them:

    - what do you think is going on, under the hood?
    - what concepts would I need to understand in order to replicate this work in p5?
    - what resources might help me to learn those concepts?

kunzie:

- 2 circles that keep increasing in size, but the circle only has stroke, no fill.
- changing the size of the circle over time (modulo), to create a gradient
- youtube, p5 resources, google, chat gpt

lam:

- two circles, and every time it respawns a new colour comes out
- smooth gradient colour, how to make the circle grow
- p5 reference, youtube, w3schools

willby:

- two radial gradients on the top and bottom (centre) of the window growing
- colour, division, p5, loops/iterations
- p5 reference, mdn

### 2. Take one the concepts from the previous question, and implement it in the [p5 online editor](https://editor.p5js.org/).  Embed your sketch in your blog, detailing how the code is working, and the resources and or communities you engaged with in order to learn about it.

I've already unintentionally ended up doing this last time, so I've instead tried to some-what re-create the chosen work in p5.

<iframe id="w0101_p5sketch" src="https://editor.p5js.org/sams4m/full/K3Avd4gQ-"></iframe>

<script type="module">

    const iframe  = document.getElementById (`w0101_p5sketch`)
    iframe.width  = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
    iframe.height = (iframe.width * 9 / 16 + 42)*1.7
    
</script>

Taking and building on from the ideas in the example I found, I reworked it to better re-create what Rozendaal has created, using 2 circles (drawn with the ellipse function) and an initial background that is printed once during set up, but not again after, the growing circle will continuously become the 'new' background as it keeps going.

I added filter(BLUR) to help disperse the edges of the circle, creating a better gradient illusion further outside of the circle. noStroke() was also used to give a smoother gradient blend, as I found that having stroke can produce a weird outline where the fill and stroke overlap.

The circles grow using a for loop. The variable both increments the size of the circle and the colours at the same time. And an if statement was used for once the circle reaches 1.3 \* height to reset the cycle. This number was chosen after trial and error, testing for the moment the center colour of the circle fills up the whole screen and becomes the 'new' background.

To simulate the changing colour phenomenon I've used a counter. Counter 1 and 2 each represent two different fill colours and will interchange between the two accordingly, with the counter updating when the circle(s) have reached half the height of the screen. This is a bit more rigid of an approach to what Rozendaal has actually created, and I assume that Rozendaal would have either a library/array of preset fill colours that the code would either randomly pick from or cycle through chronologically. Or he may be using some sort of colour randomiser. However after observing for a bit I think that it does eventually show the same colours, however randomised on 'spawn'.

---

### The p5 Code

```
// DECLARE GLOBAL VAR
var size;
var adder;
var count;

// ----------------------------------------------------------------------- //
function setup(){
  createCanvas(innerWidth , innerWidth);
  // initial background colour
  background ('pink');

  //Initialise the vars
  //circle size
  size = 5;
  //speed
  adder = 2;
  //count-> controls colour of circle
  count = 1;

}

// ----------------------------------------------------------------------- //

function draw (){

  		//Starting from 1/2 height to 0 -> -15 each time
        // max circles == 1/2 height
  		//i -> adjust colour fill of the shapes and the incrementation circle changes
        // the bigger the i the less smooth the change
  		//size -> base size of ellipse

      for (var i =height/2; i > 0; i-=25){

        //Dividing i by different values so that we have different values
        //for r, g, and b.
        noStroke ();

        // if count = 1 -> pink circle grows
        //if count =2 -> green circle grows
        if (count == 1){
          fill(300+i/15, 20+i/5, 45+i/5);
        } else if (count == 2) {
          fill(10+i/15, 60+i/10, 20+i/5);
        }

        //Place circle in bottom centre of screen and draw their size using
        //i and the 'size' variable.
        ellipse (width/2, height, i/2+size, i/2+size);
        ellipse (width/2, 0, i/2+size, i/2+size);


      }


  //Add the value of 'adder' to 'size
  size+=adder;


  //If size is greater than half height, let size return back to 5
  // change count to other number (to alternate colour)
  if (size >= 1.3 * height) {
    size = 10;

    if (count == 1){
      count = 2;
    } else if (count == 2) {
      count = 1;
    }

  }

  // Blurs the circle to give the dispersed look
  filter(BLUR, 25);

}
```

---

# Thoughts for Assingment 1

I'm thinking to go with ghosts as a 'kindred' spirit. \
Perhaps a monochrome colour scheme, where there will spontaneously be 'blobs' (gradient circles) of various sizes that appear like a splash on the screen. And upon mouse interaction, blobs of a different colour would appear (pink?). Visualising the feelings of and from interacting with the kindred spirit

---
