---
title: 🎀 Redundancy, Style, & Refactorisation
published_at: 2025-03-20
snippet: Week 03 01
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---

<style>
    .markdown-body {background-color:#F9E8CE;}
  html {background-color:#F9E8CE;}
  h1 {color:#F356A7;}
  h3, h4 {color:#F27794;}
  p, pre, ul {color:#3A6FD7; font-weight:500;}
  a {color:#C7C3FC}
</style>

---

# Notes on Assignment 1 before this class

Heading into this class I ended up loosing my previous further progress that I had already done on the 'noise remix' due to the save files going out of sync -- I guess that's just a risk and the nature of working online. Hopefully this wouldn't be an issue later on when we go to work locally for assignment 2. Because of this I feel I am a tad bit more behind than I'd like because I was hoping to get some opinions and feedback from class mates in class. Thankfully it'll be easy for me to re-write the code again after class since I've already re-written it so many times at this point, and I was thinking to scrap this idea either way. I feel its a bit too chaotic and busy to fit within the cute aesthetic register which follows a more simple build. While using the pixelated background is quite mesmerising to look at in itself, I can't really do any more work on it, as then it gets too complicated. I think taking a step back and simplifying the background will allow for me to add a sprite whilst working within the boundaries of the 'cute' aesthetic register.

<iframe id="w0301-00" src="https://editor.p5js.org/sams4m/full/meCENVtAm"></iframe>

<script type="module">
const iframe = document.getElementById (`w0301-00`)
iframe.width = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
iframe.height = iframe.width * 9 / 16 + 42
</script>

> The revived test code that I was working on leading into this class. I had closed all the p5 open tabs I had on Safari and restarted my laptop before the p5 window was able to get back on the correct sync file. I think there also may be some browser compatibility issues; p5 doesn't work well with Safari.

From here, I refashioned the assignment after class, completely scrapping what I originally had and started from a brand new p5 file. I went back to the idea of a more plain background paired with using blurred shapes. I also went back to look at Rafaël Rozendaal's work, which was when I got the idea of creating a sketch with blooming circles, kind of like blooming flowers. I feel the blooming circles best visually reflect the feeling of intrigue that I get when interacting with the topic of ghosts and paranormal entities. It also emulates the ghostly floating feeling that I imagine ghosts to behave like. On top of that, I'm thinking to incorporate a little star as a sprite that will semi-follow the mouse, but also float around on the page. Disappearing for a bit half way through but then also returning, like what I imagine a ghost would behave like.

---

# Homework

### 1. Please describe how your AT1 will use each of the following concepts:

> - variables
> - functions
> - iteration
> - boolean logic
> - arrays
> - classes

#### Variables:

Overall, variables will hold different parameters, either in the form of single constant numbers, or arrays and/or objects that hold multiple values. Global variables in particular will be variables that can be accessed throughout the code, whereas local variables will only be accessible within the specific scope.

#### Functions:

Functions will hold actions that will be executed when called upon, this can range from simpler ones such as play a sound when screen is clicked or more difficult maths calculations, or actions such as draw a shape. (E.g. To follow through with the star idea, I would need to have a function to draw the star shape, as there isn't any inbuilt star shape like there are for circles and squares).
Another use that functions will have is to keep the code clean. By delegating actions into the functions, it can keep the draw function short and clean. This would also making reading and debugging the code a lot easier (especially when paired with intuitive naming and adequate comments).

#### Iteration:

Iterations such as for loops will help simplify and shorten the code whilst executing something that would otherwise take up a complicated and unnecessary amount of lines of code. By using iterative loops in the code it would shorten and clean up the code, which would also help with readability and prevent unnecessary mistakes in the code.

#### Boolean logic

Boolean logic which uses binary values (true or false) will help with controlling the flow of conditional statements like if and else / control which code blocks to execute and when. E.g. if something === true then the following will then occur. It would be handy in creating interactions such as mouse clicked.

#### Arrays

Arrays hold multiple parameters within the one variable. This will help minimise the amount of variables needed to be used in the code when there are variables that fall within the same nature, such as colours. Instead of having multiple variables named colour1, colour2, colour3, etc, it can all be stored in one colours array looking like colours [ length of array => number of colours in total - 1 ]. This will also help with keeping the code clean and short, improving the readability of the code. Objects can also be held in arrays, which further emphasises the point of keeping variable names to a minimum, keeping the code short, clean and easy to read.

#### Classes

Classes create a blueprint of objects, holding data (attributes) and behaviours (methods) that relate to one specific instance. This helps with organising (keeping clean) and reusability of the code. In this case, I'll be using it to define the structure and behaviour of the background blooming circles, which will reset and over-write, thus redraw an instance every time the screen is interacted with. The class itself will also be kept in it's own js file, which will help keep the code organised and short. Which will make it easier for me to read and debug when there are issues.

### 2. Embed a rough draft of your AT1 on your blog. Discuss:

> - how well did you achieve cuteness in the visual, sonic, and interactive domains?
> - what communities and learning resources did you draw on to do the bulk of your learning for this project?
> - what aspects have you enjoyed the most about this process? What have you found to be most surprising?
> - what aspects have you struggled with the most? What have you found the most confusing?

<iframe id="w0301-01" src="https://editor.p5js.org/sams4m/full/RseSSzyIJ"></iframe>

> Final Assignment 1 Draft.

<script type="module">
const iframe = document.getElementById (`w0301-01`)
iframe.width = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
iframe.height = iframe.width * 9 / 16 + 42
</script>
