---
title: 💥 Glitch, Net Art, & Intermediate JS
published_at: 2025-04-01
snippet: Week 04 01
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---

<style>
  p {color:#3A6FD7};
</style>

---

# Homework

### 1. Use techniques from [Glitch](https://blog.science.family/240405_glitch), or [Pixel Sort](https://blog.science.family/240408_pixel_sort), or both, to render a self-portrait on your blog.

> - show your commented code in a syntax-highlighted code-block

<canvas id="canvas" style= "margin-bottom: 5%;"></canvas>

<!-- <iframe id="w04-01" src="https://sams4m.github.io/comm2747-cr-coding/w04-01/"></iframe> -->

> Self portrait that glitches rapidly on hover

I lowered the chunk size but increased the repeats so that the level of "corruption" is alot more severe.

<!-- <script type="module">

   const iframe  = document.getElementById (`w04-01`)
   iframe.width  = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
   iframe.height = iframe.width * 9 / 16 + 42

</script> -->

#### The code

For somereason the code wouldnt give a live preview of the render in this workspace. So I had written the code on a seperate js file on a seperate github repo as it would give the liver rendering and I found it easier to work with and debug issues with the live rendering. All the interaction was written in js, html only set up the page and linked the script.

> This problem has been resolved, and I've also moved the code to render directly into the blog as for somereason the previous implementation of embeding the self-portrait caused the page to stop scrolling.

### 2. How does rendering your likeness in this way affect its aesthetic register?  In your discussion, please refer to:

> - one or more readings from "Glitch Readings"
> - one or more readings from "Net Art Readings"
> - the concept of effective complexity
> - Ngai's three aesthetic registers

There's something quite uncanny when rendering one's likeness in the way shown above (a selfie glitching) that perhaps poses as a prompt on not the content, but what is happening. Wolfe raises this idea in his writing, "Reflections on Art and Posthumanism". Suggesting the materiality of art "set[s] up a recursive system of "restraints" that invites you to have a non-representationalist [experience]". Relating to what Russell suggests in his paper "Glitch is Skin", the image of a self portrait online creates a "skin" like entity that wraps around the true subject, " creating an “other” that is forever standing on the outside," similar to facing a mirror. It allows the creator control and power over their representation online, creating something that is but isn't is. I think Ngai brings up a really key observation, that aesthetic is now a connected part of performance, commodity and information; “the increasing routing of art and aesthetic experience through the exchange of information.” A perfect rendered skin that the internet has become obsessed with attaining does leave something to be desired. As Ngai says, "it can be awesome but never inspire awe". The lack of flaws from a perfect "skin" on the internet creates perhaps creates something of classic aesthetics, something beautiful. However, with commodification and performative aspects of aesthetics and the evolution of society classic beauty is perhaps not enough for us to communicate with and consume.

As Ngai proposes in their paper, art and aesthetics is a form "which we can have perceptions and share judgments that seem most closely related to what we do, say, and use in the twenty-first century," in otherwords, prompt conversation and discussion. And "classic" as an aesthetic no longer can uphold this alone. Ngai identifies, zany, cute and interesting, as the three main categories of aesthetics, all which challenge the classic aesthetics of "beauty", and can be instrumentalised as styles of engagement.

Rendering the selfie the way above, with the glitches, makes the self portrait performative. Zany, as Ngai would classify it; "hot and sweaty, anxious and excessive." Though perhaps the algorithmic nature of the glitch could also make it interesting; always "[telling] new stories but [reproducing] the same schema." However, interesting is also subjective, with only the experience being the common ground for each person. Interest being interpretation based.

As aesthetics become tied with performance, perhaps it has nothing to do with the selfie at all. Rather than viewing a face in the self portrait, its the articulation of the form and content, and furthermore, the viewer's own interpretation that which effects the aesthetic appearance. And while Wolfe suggests the conversation born from the interpretation itself is as a problem for the humanist versus posthumaist view, the glitches ultimately makes the “digital skin” visible revealing edges and seams that allows for an aesthetic to be born, offering a conversation prompt for the viewer.

---

<script type="module" id="script">
// create canvas
const cnv = document.getElementById('canvas');
// styling
cnv.width = cnv.parentNode.scrollWidth;
cnv.height = cnv.width;
cnv.style.backgroundColor = `deeppink`;

// gets 2d context of canvas
const ctx = cnv.getContext(`2d`);

//SETTING UP IMAGE -----------------------------------------------------
// var to store base64 representation of the image
let img_data;

// draw an image i function
// drawing image onto 2d contex of canvas
// drawImage(image, dx, dy, dWidth, dHeight)
// dx,dy = distance from 0,0 (top left)
const draw = (i) => ctx.drawImage(i, 0, 0, cnv.width, cnv.height);

// creates new instance of Image object type in img
const img = new Image();
// when img loads
img.onload = () => {
  // resize canvas height to maintain the image's aspect ratio
  cnv.height = cnv.width * (img.height / img.width);
  // draw original img
  draw(img);
  // converts img to a base64 JPEG string
  img_data = cnv.toDataURL("image/jpeg");
  // initiates glitch process
  add_glitch();
};
// img source = selfie.jpeg
img.src = `/W04/selfie.jpeg`;

// GLITCH LOGIC ---------------------------------------------------------
// function to get a random integer from 0 to max - 1
const rand_int = (max) => Math.floor(Math.random() * max);

// recursive function that randomly slices and removes chunks
// from the base64 image string
// returning a corrupted ver
const glitchify = (data, chunk_max, repeats) => {
  // chunk size = a random number from 0 to chunk max/4
  // then multiply rand int by 4
  const chunk_size = rand_int(chunk_max / 4) * 4;
  // index = random number from 0 to length of data - 24 - chunk size
  // from above, then add 24 after
  const i = rand_int(data.length - 24 - chunk_size) + 24;
  // front = data 0 till index from above
  const front = data.slice(0, i);
  // back = data index + chunk size till end of data
  const back = data.slice(i + chunk_size, data.length);
  // result = front + back string
  // will be missing the chunk size --> this is the "corrupted"
  const result = front + back;
  // ternary operator; If repeats = 0, return result
  // else call glitchify() again with repeats - 1
  return repeats == 0 ? result : glitchify(result, chunk_max, repeats - 1);
};

// CREATING GLITCHING FRAMES ------------------------------------------------
// array that stores multiple glitched images
const glitch_arr = [];

// function that creates 12 glitched images instances and stores
// into glitch array
const add_glitch = () => {
  // creating new instance index of Image obj
  const i = new Image();
  // when new instance index loads
  i.onload = () => {
    // push into glitch array
    glitch_arr.push(i);
    // if less than 12 instances repeat
    if (glitch_arr.length < 12) add_glitch();
    // otherwise draw frame
    else draw_frame();
  };
  // source of index is glitched image
  // data = img_data (string)
  // max chunk size = 25
  // 30 repeats
  i.src = glitchify(img_data, 25, 30);
};

// ANIMATION --------------------------------------------------------
// boolean to control when glitching happens
let is_glitch = false;

// adding event listener for when mouse enters canvas
// makes is glitching true
cnv.addEventListener("mouseenter", () => {
  is_glitch = true;
});

// adding event listener for when mouse leaves canvas
// makes is glitching false
cnv.addEventListener("mouseleave", () => {
  is_glitch = false;
});

// var to store current index of glitched image (from glitch_arr)
let glitch_i = 0;

// drawing the image frames
const draw_frame = () => {
  // if is glitch is true
  if (is_glitch) {
    // pick a random glitch frame
    glitch_i = rand_int(glitch_arr.length);
    // draw glitched image
    draw(glitch_arr[glitch_i]);
  } else {
    // else draw original image
    draw(img);
  }
  // keep looping animation
  requestAnimationFrame(draw_frame);
};
</script>

<script type="module">
   import codeBlockRenderer from "/scripts/codeblock_renderer.js"
   codeBlockRenderer (document, `script`, `canvas`)
</script>
