---
title: 💥 Canvas API, Recursion, & Effective Complexity
published_at: 2025-03-25
snippet: Week 04 00
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---

<style>
  p {color:#3A6FD7};
</style>

<!-- <style>
  @import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Cutive+Mono&display=swap');
  @import url('https://use.typekit.net/jyw5vxq.css');

h1, h3, h4, p, pre, ul, li {
  /* font-family: "Cutive Mono", monospace;
  font-weight: 700;
  font-style: normal; */

  font-family: "prestige-elite-std", monospace;
  font-weight: 600;
  font-style: normal;
  color:#CEB5D4;
}

 .text-gray-500, .markdown-body blockquote {color:#E872B0}
 .markdown-body {background-color:#102B53;}
  html {background-color:#102B53;}
  h1 {; font-weight: 800;}
  p, pre, ul {color:#7D9FC0;}
  .markdown-body a {color:#4E7AB1; text-decoration:underline;}
</style> -->

---

# Homework

### 1. Please use either Canvas API or the p5 online editor to create three example compositions, demonstrating:

> 1. high compressibility
> 2. low compressibility
> 3. high effective complexity
>
> - try [The Coding Train's](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLRqwX-V7Uu6bxNsa_3SfCPyF9Md9XvXhR) or [Nature of Code](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLRqwX-V7Uu6ZV4yEcW3uDwOgGXKUUsPOM) playlists for inspiration

We had discussed the 3 different venues in class and what I've gathered/deduced from this was:

- As random-ness goes up, the aesthetic gets more chaotic
- Aesthetic register and effective complexity : effective complexity affects the aesthetic register
- High compressibility- > very ordered, like a grid that can be 'compressed', theres a pattern
- Low compressibility -> little order, no pattern, no way to express it in a simpler way -> something very random
- High effective complexity -> a mix of both alot of structure/order and randomness

From understanding this, I created 3 compositions, one for each:

<!-- LOW COMPRESS ------------------------------------------------------------->
<iframe id="w04-00-2" src="https://sams4m.github.io/comm2747-cr-coding/w04-00/low-compress/"></iframe>

> Low compressibility

My thought was to create something a bit more chaotic and you can't actually simplify. From the reading, I had also gathered that a low to not compressible work would be "something truly randomised; maximally disordered with no underlying structure." "No pattern and redundancy to take advantage of." With that in mind, I used this as a chance to experiment and get used to the syntax for coding in VScode, without p5. Creating this random layered piece with columns of stars and a smiley face layered on top.

<script type="module">

    const iframe  = document.getElementById (`w04-00-2`)
    iframe.width  = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
    iframe.height = iframe.width * 9 / 16 + 42

</script>

<!-- HIGH COMPRESS ------------------------------------------------------------->
<iframe id="w04-00-1" src="https://sams4m.github.io/comm2747-cr-coding/w04-00/high-compress/"></iframe>

> High compressibility

Following the same point mentioned above from the reading, it can also be deduced that high pattern recognition and redundancy to take advantage of makes something compressible. Therefore my thought was to create something that can be easily "crushed" down or simplified, like a grid, kind of like the grid from week 1. But I wanted to make something a bit more interesting compared to week 1 though, so I changed it to stars. Taking the same star code from assignment 1 but re-writing it in vanilla javascript style.

<script type="module">

    const iframe  = document.getElementById (`w04-00-1`)
    iframe.width  = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
    iframe.height = iframe.width * 9 / 16 + 42

</script>

<!-- HIGH EFFECTIVE COMPRESS ------------------------------------------------------------->
<iframe id="w04-00-3" src="https://sams4m.github.io/comm2747-cr-coding/w04-00/effective-complexity/"></iframe>

> High effective complexity

From the reading, Galanter concludes that "structure and complexity increases somewhere between the extremes of **order** and **disorder**", leading to the consideration of "effective complexity". Combined with the discussions that took place in class, I figured a mix of random calculations mixed into some ordered logic, like the grid from the high compressibility composition would be a reasonable interpretation. Which was why I created this grid of randomised stars, the stars' size and number of points randomise each time the screen refreshes.

<script type="module">

    const iframe  = document.getElementById (`w04-00-3`)
    iframe.width  = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
    iframe.height = iframe.width * 9 / 16 + 42

</script>

### 2. In his paper, [What is Generative Art: Complexity Theory as a Context for Art Theory](https://www.philipgalanter.com/downloads/ga2003_paper.pdf) (2003), Philip Galanter writes that " ... some maintain that this notion of structure is subjective and remains in the eye of the beholder. "  Why might this be useful for the purposes of making generative art?  

> - Embed and refer to the three examples created above to support your explanation.
> - In your third example, what concepts and code are responsible for creating *structure*, in this sense?

I think Galanter, in his paper, highlights a good point, that "generative" merely refers to _how_ something was made and not why the art is made that was nor what the context behind it is. Therefore it can be said that generative refers to the methodology/physics behind how the art is created; allowing the potential creation of multiple results/works from using some iteration of a generative system.

Modern day art is recognised as "[both] a social and historical notion" that will change and evolve over time. Therefore we could narrow down the notion of generative art to include the past and present activities behind generative art, and future evolution of physics and methodology. However, all artwork innately includes some version of physics, but clearly not all work is generative art.

Generative art as is, which uses some sort of algorithm or autonomous system, teeters on a line between extreme order and disorder to create a visual composition. Art being an interpretive form that seeks to evoke a feeling, it's important that structure, the arrangement of nodes and elements to create something, remains subjective, so that different variations can exist, creative compositions can be created. This can be best seen between the high compressibility and high effective complexity compositions I made and embedded above. It's only the level of "structure" that was tweaked and allowed for a different result to be generated.

### 3. Choose an art work from one of [these artists](https://rmit.instructure.com/courses/151099/pages/some-postdigital-artists). 

> - Discuss how this artist has used structure and randomness to achieve effective complexity in their work.

<iframe id="w04-00-4" src="https://beyondresolution.info/ABOUT"></iframe>

> Chosen artist: [Rosa Menkman](https://beyondresolution.info/ABOUT)

<script type="module">
const iframe = document.getElementById (`w04-00-4`)
iframe.width = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
iframe.height = iframe.width * 9 / 16 + 42
</script>

Rosa uses the mouse as a source of randomness in their work. Through using the mouse, she triggers an onset of different interactions on screen in their portfolio. Such as mouse over on the title, where segments tilt when hovered over. The mouse state also changes randomly over sections that don't actually trigger anything when clicked on (as it is convention where the mouse changes to a pointer state when hovered over objects that can activate something, but in this case nothing actually occurs). Creating randomness through "mixed signals"; unconventional web interaction notions. I do think that Rosa also emphasises this sense of randomness through the aesthetics chosen to present the portfolio page through. All the font, icons and illustrations don't follow one style, especially when she misaligns the "crisis" icon (though it does emphasise that point, so perhaps it's not so random in hindsight) paired with the seemingly random excerpts of text at the start. However it is all bought together by all being greyscale apart from a few random spots of neon colour (but I guess not entirely random, as they follow ROYGBIV, though once again, not "conventional"). And once again, even if random the parts do come together to tell a "quirky" story so perhaps you can argue it's just the "aesthetic"?

Though, even with all the randomness, the portfolio does follow a hierarchy that makes the portfolio easy to navigate and understand (headers, titles, icons and text, etc.). And does follow a "portfolio" convention; header with navigation to detailed pages of works, introduction, some work showcased on the main page.

In this way, Rosa makes the experience both unconventional emotionally but conventional to navigate at the same time, achieving effective complexity in their work.

---
