---
title: 💥 Signals & Three js cont.
published_at: 2025-04-10
snippet: Week 06 00
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---

<style>
  p {color:#3A6FD7};
</style>

---

# Homework

Please consider the following javascript libraries:

- [q5.js](https://q5js.org/)
- [c2.js](https://c2js.org/)
- [svg.js](https://svgjs.dev/)

... and attend to the following questions / tasks:

### 1. What is each library for? 

> - In what ways are they different?

#### q5.js

Q5 is " a small and fast alternative (experimental) implementation of p5. js, the client-side JS platform for creative expression on the web"; in other words, sort of like a p5 lite. It is more beginner friendly and powered by WebGPU. Q5 is mostly code-compatible with p5.js, therefore you can swap out library links in a sketch and expect it to work mostly the same without much modification. It inherits most of the positive features from p5, though puts more emphasis on being fast and lightweight in comparison to p5.

At this point in time, q5 supports most of p5's drawing API's, math functionality and other utilities, though works purely in 2D -- it doesn't support 3D yet. They will mostly add 3D later as an extension to keep q5 lightweight. It also excludes DOM and sound functionalities, though, is _mostly_ compatible with p5.sound.js and p5.dom.js

[Reference / guide](https://q5js.org/learn/#coreSection) to q5.js library.

#### c2.js

C2 is a library primarily based on computational geometry, physics simulation, evolutionary algorithms, and other modules. It is written in TypeScript and released as a JavaScript library. The library creates geometric data through the algorithm module. These algorithms have great application in generative design, data visualisation, and sound visualisation.

It currently provides a simple renderer on canvas for rendering, the user can also implement their own renderer based on Canvas, SVG, or WebGL accordingly.

The [references / functions](https://c2js.org/reference.html) that c2.js library provides.

#### SVG.js

Svg.js is a lightweight library for manipulating and animating SVG files/images. It also focuses on being lightweight and fast whilst covering all the SVG specs.

SVG itself has elements and attributes for rectangles, circles, ellipses, lines, polygons, curves, and more. In Javascript it also supports filter and blur effects, gradients, rotations, animations, interactivity. This library would bring this to life.

Reference to [manipulate](https://svgjs.dev/docs/3.2/manipulating/) SVGs.
Reference to [animate](https://svgjs.dev/docs/3.2/animating/) SVGs.

### 2. Can we use these libraries from within a [javascript module](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules)? Explain why / why not.

> - In what situations might a tool like [esm.sh](https://esm.sh/) be useful?

#### q5.js

Yes and no, it isn't as direct as using for example RiTa, which we used in the last class. The website offers this:

```
<script src="https://q5js.org/q5.js"></script>
```

Which could be added directly into your html file. However, to use directly in a javascript module you'd want to use something that can convert the javascript module link that can be directly imported into your file without any installations or build steps required, and that's when something like the tool mentioned above, esm.sh, may be useful.

#### c2.js

Yes, and no, similar to q5, but can be more straight forward. The website itself offers the download for the whole folder for the library in typescript, and the other files that come with it (examples etc), or you could access the github repo and download either the full cs.js file (located int he dist folder) or get the minified version of the file, c2.min.js (also in the same folder).

You can then use the library by either by first installing via npm, which then you can include to your script to use via:

```
// this code is sourced directly from the c2.js website
// located in "Get Started"

let c2 = require("c2.js");

// you can then do something like
let rect = new c2.Rect(0, 0, 480, 480);
let rects = rect.split([1,2,3,5,8], 'squarify');
```

Or you could import through adding through linking it in the html.

```
// this code is sourced directly from the c2.js website
// located in "Get Started"

// in the body of html, or just body of md
<canvas id='c2'/>
    <script src='main.js'></script>

// in the script tag
let canvas = document.getElementById('c2');
let renderer = new c2.Renderer(canvas);

renderer.size(480, 480);
renderer.background('#cccccc');

// you can then do something like:
let rect = new c2.Rect(0, 0, 480, 480);
let rects = rect.split([1,2,3,5,8], 'squarify');

renderer.draw(() => {
  renderer.clear();

  let mouse = renderer.mouse;
  let point = new c2.Point(mouse.x, mouse.y);
  for (let rect of rects){
    if(rect.contains(point)) renderer.fill('#ff0000');
    else renderer.fill(false);
    renderer.rect(rect);
  }
});
```

Or, like above, you could use esm.sh to package the link up so that it can used directly in the javascript without having to install or build anything.

#### SVG.js

Svg.js proves to be similar to the one above, yes and no. The website's [installation page](https://svgjs.dev/docs/3.2/installation/#cdn-js-jsdelivr) provides multiple options.
You could use npm:

```
npm install @svgdotjs/svg.js
```

Yarn: (Similar to npm it's a package manager for node.js but is developed and handled by facebook)

```
yarn add @svgdotjs/svg.js
```

CDN/JSDeliver: (content deliver network, like esm.sh, is like an online "delivery" service for js libraries: serving web files directly from the npm registry and GitHub repositories without any configuration)

```
// taken from the svg.js website
// CDN.js
<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/svg.js/3.2.4/svg.min.js" integrity="sha512-ovlWyhrYXr3HEkGJI5YPXIFYIbHEKs2yfemKVVIIQe9U74tXyTuVdzMlvZlw/0X5lnIDRgtVlckrkeuCrDpq4Q==" crossorigin="anonymous" referrerpolicy="no-referrer"></script>

// JSDeliver
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@svgdotjs/svg.js@latest/dist/svg.min.js"></script>
```

You could similarly download the js file directly from the Github repo. These are included in the html body.

Or, like above, you could use esm.sh to package the link up so that it can used directly in the javascript without having to install or build anything.

### 3. Use one of these libraries on your blog to demonstrate how to use a signal or envelope to make something change over time.

<canvas id="q3-canvas" style="margin-bottom:5%;"> </canvas>

> Base code inspired by [Voronoi example](https://github.com/ren-yuan/c2.js/blob/main/examples/Voronoi.js)

### 4. In your own words, please give a brief summary of the following texts: 

> - [Information & Thinking](https://rmit.instructure.com/courses/151099/files?preview=44298459) by Michel Serres
> - [What Is It Like to Be A Fungus?](https://rmit.instructure.com/courses/151099/files/44319743) by Merlin Sheldrake
> - [Xenofemenism: A Politics for Alienation](https://rmit.instructure.com/courses/151099/files/44555943) by Laboria Cuboniks

#### Information and Thinking

Serres starts off by introducing the idea of 4 universal rules; all life emits, receives, stores and processes information. Therefore, it can be said that information interacts within and between all existing things, matter, and thus humans aren't as special as we think we are; "all things express, in some way, other things and the world". Following this idea, and refuting the notion of humans as the centre object, that means there are a lot more uncertainties; we cannot be certain about a lot of our thinking. Serres proposes that inversely thinking, one could also say that the world thinks like us, reminding me of the famous quote "I think, therefore I am", the fact that it can be thought of, it is proof enough for the existence. Which I can see has definitely had some influence when he suggests that "any object can become the subject of other objects" with the molecular nature of the world.

Leon Brillouin proposes information to be the opposite of entropy, "negentropy" (entropy being the degree of disorder/randomness in a system). In this sense, it proposes information is repetitive and lacks a sense of rarity. Thinking, on the other hand constitutes of the circulation of information, and therefore it can be said thinking is inverse to the notion of information and equivalent to inventing and getting a hold of the innate rarity that exists within everything.

Serres also metaphorically compares thinking to be akin to the night, where the sky is filled with stars that emits light which planets receives and reflects. Comparing information to be like these stars, creating reference points of authentic knowledge, information with results and intuition which creates networks of constellations. Thus the world, fundamentally has no differentiation between reality and representation with the world being composed of matter and mirrors, things and reflections. The latter is just a part of the former. In this way, all the atoms of the world, or stars in the sky, have the ability to encode as they interact.

#### What is it like to be a fungus?

> "Fungi inhabit enmeshed worlds; countless threads lead through these labyrinths."

Sheldrake, a starts off by introducing key information about the nature of fungi and how they play a fundamental part in the world; to this day, new ecosystems are founded by fungi. And this is all thanks to their unique metabolic system which creates networks of systems, hyphae. Through this he uncovers a bigger idea; "The history of life is full of intimate collaborations", in other words, a community reliant on symbiotic relationships. Your body is just a large microbiome planet which interacts with other planets and communities. Concluding that humans are not a special and are only one part of a bigger equation, though being humans ourselves we perceive the rest of the world with us being the centre and continue to build on this understanding through adding onto the preconceived notions centring around humans.

Sheldrake, throughout his PhD studies have viewed fungi interactions between organisms abstract, but are they really? Perhaps it's simpler than thought of, and through his journey of understanding fungi, it taught him to ditch the "well-worn patterns of thought, to be amazed—and confused—by their entangled lives." And in this sense, perhaps fungi is just an ancient large scale example of the complex efficient model.

#### Xenofemenism: A Politics for Alienation

Cuboniks proposes a strong discussion, introducing the purpose and aim of the Xenofeminism movement. In this discussion, one idea they insist on is the possibilities of social change for everyone, achieved through fostering communities between fractured insurgencies. Stopping the valorisation of the locals to achieve selfish personal agendas in politics.
To do this we would need to understand that the universe is intersectional; "opening new lines of transit across an uneven landscape". The problems we face are symbiotic in nature, systemic and interlocking. And as the problems that we face are all interconnecting, then the resolution must also be resolved as an interlacing whole. In other words, building communities that focus on "unselfish solidarity and collective self-mastery". Removing the current top-down approach of politics and the world.
Xenofeminism stands for equality, and aims to construct a new platform which harnesses the points of power and powerlessness in both virtual and material to produce effective interventions that will combat the injustices that is an open software that continuously takes modifications from everyone to enhance the community. Following an effective complexity model.

---

<script type="module" id="q3-script">
import C2 from 'https://esm.sh/c2.js';

let cnv = document.getElementById('q3-canvas');
let renderer = new C2.Renderer(cnv);

// background colour 
renderer.background('#102B53');
// call resize function to fit window 
resize();

//random number generator for generating random values
let random = new C2.Random();

// CONSTRUCTING AGENT CLASS-------------------------------------------------
// create child class that inherits all properties + methods from parent class C2.Point
// Point handles foundational positioning logic
class Agent extends C2.Point {
    constructor() {
      // random.next is basically the same as Maths.random()
      // random x val, between 0 to width 
      let x = random.next(renderer.width);
      // random y val, between 0 to height
      let y = random.next(renderer.height);
      // Calls the parent class constructor and passes the vals above in
      super(x, y);

      // then adds its own properties (vx, vy for velocity)
      // calling function to calc signal wave
      let sig = calcSignal();

      // y velocity = a triangle signal wave
      this.vy = sig;
      // random x velocity val between -3, 3
      this.vx = random.next(-3, 3);
    }

    // update func that moves the point based on its velocity
    // and handles collision with canvas boundaries by reversing direction
    update() {
      // adding velocity x val to x pos val
      this.x += this.vx;
      // adding velocity y val to y pos val
      this.y += this.vy;

      // if x is < 0, i.e. outside of left boundary 
      if (this.x < 0) {
        // make x = 0
        this.x = 0;
        // make vx negative (reverse direction )
        this.vx *= -1;
      } else if (this.x > renderer.width) {
        // if x > than right boundary 
        // make x = width 
        this.x = renderer.width;
        // make vx negative (reverse direction )
        this.vx *= -1;
      }
      // if y is < 0, i.e. outside of top boundary 
      if (this.y < 0) {
        // may y = 0
        this.y = 0;
        // make vy negative (reverse direction )
        this.vy *= -1;
      } else if (this.y > renderer.height) {
        // if x > than bottom boundary 
        // make y = height
        this.y = renderer.height;
        // make vy negative (reverse direction )
        this.vy *= -1;
      }
    }

    // display method that creates an particle point with a width of 5px
    display() {
        // colour pink 
        renderer.stroke('#CEB5D4');
        // size is random between 0 to 6px
        renderer.lineWidth(random.next(6));
        // point pos 
        renderer.point(this.x, this.y);
    }
}

// CREATING AGENTS + ANIMATION LOOP-------------------------------------------------
// declaring an array of 30 Agent instances
let agents = new Array(30);
for (let i = 0; i < agents.length; i++) {
  agents[i] = new Agent();
}

// creates the animation loop, in each frame:
renderer.draw(() => {
  //Clears the canvas
  renderer.clear();

  // creates a new instance of voronoi
  let voronoi = new C2.Voronoi();
  // computes new voronoi diagram based on the current agent positions
  voronoi.compute(agents);
  // gets triangles, vertices, edges, and regions from the Voronoi computation
  let triangles = voronoi.triangles;
  let vertices = voronoi.vertices;
  let edges = voronoi.edges;
  let regions = voronoi.regions;

  // creates rectangle based off canvas dimensions
  let rect = new C2.Rect(0, 0, renderer.width, renderer.height);

  // declaring max area var = 0, will hold largest part
  let maxArea = 0;
  // declaring min area var to be an infinite positive number
  // will hold smallest area 
  let minArea = Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY;
  // When voronoi diagram is computed, plane is divided into regions
  // some regions can extend infinitely / beyond the canvas
  // therefore clip voronoi regions to canvas boundaries
  for (let i = 0; i < regions.length; i++) {
    // clip() calculates the intersection between the region 
    // and the rectangle and cuts it off
    let clip = rect.clip(regions[i]);
    // if clip isnt empty, return the clipped ver (clip)
    if(clip != null) {
      regions[i] = clip;
    }

    // declaring area var = the current area of part
    let area = regions[i].area();
    // if current area is smaller than min area, update min area
    if(area < minArea) {
      minArea = area;
    }
    // if current area is bigger than max area, update max 
    if(area > maxArea) {
      maxArea = area;
    }
  }


  // outline of region
  renderer.stroke('#CEB5D4');
  // Draw regions with color based on normalised area
  // Smaller areas are darker
  // Larger areas are lighter
  for (let i = 0; i < regions.length; i++) {
    // width of outline = signal wave * 15
    renderer.lineWidth(agents[i].sig * 15);
    // t calculates how far the current region's area thats
    // being evluated deviates from the "normal"; i.e. how far it 
    // skews from center 
    // z score of sorts in a way 
    let t = C2.norm(regions[i].area(), minArea, maxArea);
    // this value then adjusts the colour of the region 
    let color = C2.Color.hsl(40*t, 20+10*t, 40+90*t);
    // sets current render fill colour to adjusted colour value 
    renderer.fill(color);
    // renders the shape 
    renderer.polygon(regions[i]);
  }

  // for loop that calls the display method from class and then update func
  for (let i = 0; i < agents.length; i++) {
      agents[i].display();
      agents[i].update();
  }
});

// resizes the drawn frame to fit canvas --------------------------------------------------
window.addEventListener('resize', resize);
function resize() {
  // Gets the width of the parent element
  let parent = renderer.canvas.parentElement;

  // Sets the canvas size based on parent width
  renderer.size(parent.clientWidth, parent.clientWidth / 16 * 9);
}

// FUNCTION TO CALC SIGNAL WAVE --------------------------------------------------
function calcSignal() {
  const t = 1 / 1000;
  const p = (t / 9) % 1;

  // calculate triangle wave signal
  let sig = 1 - Math.abs (p * 2 - 1);

  // exponentiate signal
  sig = sig ** (1 / 3);

  return sig;
}

</script>

<!-- CODE BLOCK READER --------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<script type="module">
   import codeBlockRenderer from "/scripts/codeblock_renderer.js"
   codeBlockRenderer (document, `q3-script`, `q3-canvas`)
</script>
