---
title: 🌠 Live Coding
published_at: 2025-05-06
snippet: Week 08 01
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---

<style>
  .markdown-body h1, .markdown-body h3 {font-weight: 300;}
  p, ul {color:#3A6FD7;}

  .int-style {
  --color-primary:rgb(161, 161, 161);
  --color-background: #ffffff;
  --color-canvas-default: #ffffff;
  --color-foreground: #1e1e1e;
  --color-text: #1e1e1e;
  --color-muted-foreground:rgb(95, 95, 95);

  .markdown-body {background-color:#ffffff;}
  }
</style>

---

<button id="int-btn" class="rounded-md p-2 bg-transparent border border-primary text-foreground hover:#7d9fc0">Make Me Interesting 🌧️</button>

<script>
const intBtn = document.querySelector("#int-btn");
console.log(intBtn);

let interesting = false;

intBtn.addEventListener("click", function () {
  console.log('button clicked');

  if (interesting === false){
    document.documentElement.classList.add('int-style');
    interesting = true;
  } else if (interesting === true){
    document.documentElement.classList.remove('int-style');
    interesting = false;
  }

});
</script>

---

# Homework

### 1. In teams of 2 or 3, use [flok.cc](https://flok.cc/) to stage a 6-24 minute, collaborative live coding performance that uses:

> - [hydra](https://hydra.ojack.xyz/?sketch_) for visuals
> - [strudel](https://strudel.cc/) for audio
> - press the little ⌘ button in the top right to make a new pane, so you can live code both hydra and strudel at the same time

> Team: Kunzie, Lam and I.

<iframe width="100%" height="500" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/o71kWjUkFLk?si=IFEmQw7LuThgwsxB" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> Attempt 1.

The first attempt went quite interesting, it was decided that Kunzie and I would pair up to work on the visuals on hydra and lam who is more musically inclined would work on strudel. Kunzie and I didn't actually really know what we were doing, but we did look through other peoples work for inspiration in preparation for this, and just went for it based off what we saw and could remember when the time came. However Lam couldn't get his strudel code to quite work in the first attempt so we had a second attempt.

<iframe width="100%" height="500" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lMuRBA7wKjg?si=bQYzzWNExqFyHm5u&amp;start=4" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> Attempt 2.

The second was a bit more successful, with lam getting his sounds to work and Kunzie and I fixing the issue with what we were trying to execute in the previous rendition but not being able to achieve in the 6 minutes.

### 2. Include in your blog post a discussion about the live coding community of practice.  Please include:

> Some links to live coding content that you find interesting, *and why*
> A description of this community's *domain*, *repertoire*, and *values*
> Some discussion regarding the relation (if any) between cultural performance practices (music, theatre, art, etc.) and:
>
> - young people's intrinsic motivations for learning
> - education systems & pedagogy
> - discourse / public debate, more broadly
> - legislation

I find seeing the development of the code live is quite interesting and inspiring, and gives more insight into the artist's thought process and practice. What's even more cool is being able to connect with other digital media students and friends about it. [Mav](https://www.instagram.com/mav.v.v/), who I know to be an absolute touch designer wizard beforehand, but didn't know was also interested in live coding (specifically visuals), was able to show some of his [work](https://www.instagram.com/reel/DIJUU8Wyec5/?igsh=cG9waDByZXh6OHF4) where he combined touch designer and live coding using cursor Ai to create the visuals after conversing. It was interesting to hear how the motivation for learning live coding started from hearing about it from another mutual friend, and then the interest in trying to combine it with his own chosen favourite form/area/technology of creative practice (touch designer).

I think live coding is definitely a post digital practice, which breaks down the traditional education practices of creating art (visually and audibly) and allows for traditional practices to be re-invented. But it also offers a new pathway of motivation to learning these practices and makes it accessible to more.

I think this creative community branches off the creative coding community as a sub category, which means they hold pretty similar domain, repertoire and values. People in this community all hold a passion and curiosity to create and seek out ways to improve their creative practice. They often find themselves in this area out of curiosity and with the help of Ai technology making coding more accessible, it makes incorporating this mode of practice a lot more accessible too. It's a community that is also more accessible now with online platforms allowing conversations to happen too.

---
