---
title: 🌠 in the Applied Critical Posthumanities
published_at: 2025-05-29
snippet: Week 12 00
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---

<style>
  .markdown-body h1, .markdown-body h3 {font-weight: 300;}
  p, ul {color:#3A6FD7;}

  .int-style {
  --color-primary:rgb(161, 161, 161);
  --color-background: #ffffff;
  --color-canvas-default: #ffffff;
  --color-foreground: #1e1e1e;
  --color-text: #1e1e1e;
  --color-muted-foreground:rgb(95, 95, 95);

  .markdown-body {background-color:#ffffff;}
  }
</style>

---

<button id="int-btn" class="rounded-md p-2 bg-transparent border border-primary text-foreground hover:#7d9fc0">Make Me Interesting 🌧️</button>

<script>
const intBtn = document.querySelector("#int-btn");
console.log(intBtn);

let interesting = false;

intBtn.addEventListener("click", function () {
  console.log('button clicked');

  if (interesting === false){
    document.documentElement.classList.add('int-style');
    interesting = true;
  } else if (interesting === true){
    document.documentElement.classList.remove('int-style');
    interesting = false;
  }

});
</script>

---

# Homework

### Write a blog post discussing whether inclusion should be considered a core, structural pillar of creative coding. Please refer to the following concepts in your discussion:

> - digital infrastructure & digital technology-generating capacity
> - intrinsic / extrinsic motivations for learning
> - computer science gatekeeping
> - digital literacy & legislation
> - vectoralist / techno-feudalist forms of oppression
> - network effects, switching costs, & interoperability
> - extra-institutional hubs of knowledge / the critical posthumanities

I think creative coding in itself is built on the premise of an accessible and inclusive environment for coding, and therefore inclusion should be considered a core pillar of creative coding.

Traditionally, coding is institutionalised; usually a language / skill taught at universities and higher education. Which is traditionally something only available to those who are wealthy and male, depending on the geolocation it may also include being white. It's also something that for the most part, requires language proficiency in english, a language which is considered a first world language (though there are new, and more inclusive developments these days, such as the Y3 game editor China has developed for those who want to code in Chinese, though this isn't widely publicised, and is primarily taught in institutions in China, which means it still is to an extent gate-kept knowledge). This means that to an extent, it ties back to the need in accessibility of education and wealth. While there is an increase in accessibility to the knowledge with Youtube and the web, either a lot of content don't "hit" in a way that sparks intrinsic learning motivation within people because of their delivery, and or a lot of coding web forums tend to be more egotistical, purposefully using jargon as a weapon, rather than genuinely helping others. Much of functional coding also consists of compiled coding languages, which means that there is a certain machine requirement to run these codes which once again loops back to the accessibility requirement of wealth to an extent. All these play a factor in the gatekeeping culture of "traditional" functional coding, and promote an exclusivity to coding.

Creative coding moves beyond functional programming, it instead shifts the purpose of coding from executing functions to being a medium of creative expression. Especially with the development of simpler interfaces with a simplified learning curve (with it being primarily a scripting language too) that can be accessed on the web without installation (like p5), it opens up coding to those in fields that traditionally will not have access to coding as a medium. Platforms like youtube also have a lot of free learning resources targeted towards creative coding, which you find much more engaging deliveries in comparison to "traditional" coding. Other open source resources are also available these days that makes coding an even more accessible medium to the general public.

Reducing the hardware, learning and resource barriers in such a way promotes accessibility and makes creative coding a more inclusive medium that encourages intrinsic motivated learning. Furthermore, through contextualising code through creative expression and interaction, individuals are able to creatively engage with others, prompting a cultural exchange, which extrinsically motivates people to learn creative coding too. This could look like expressing and sharing cultural heritage or merely sharing with others content that they are passionate about. It empowers and opens up a diverse space to learn coding. On top of fostering creative thinking and expression, it also promotes digital literacy and problem solving skills in a creative format; helping to encourage further education for everyone. And with the network effects phenomena at play, it also means that with the accessibility of creative coding means a more accessible and not-as-scary spread of coding as a medium.

Focusing on the fact that creative coding primarily is made up of scripting languages, means that it doesn't require machine compilation to be executed, therefore minimising the switching costs when moving between machines/gadgets, but also means there is a minimised cost to start creative coding as a whole in general.

While its not perfect, but creative coding as turned programming into a more engaging and accessible format that empowers diverse individuals to learn coding as a medium to interact with others. Therefore inclusion should be considered a core, structural pillar of creative coding.

---
