---
title: 🌠 AT3
published_at: 2025-06-03
snippet: Week 12 01
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---

<style>
  .markdown-body h1, .markdown-body h3 {font-weight: 300;}
  p, ul {color:#3A6FD7;}

  .int-style {
  --color-primary:rgb(161, 161, 161);
  --color-background: #ffffff;
  --color-canvas-default: #ffffff;
  --color-foreground: #1e1e1e;
  --color-text: #1e1e1e;
  --color-muted-foreground:rgb(95, 95, 95);

  .markdown-body {background-color:#ffffff;}
  }
</style>

---

<button id="int-btn" class="rounded-md p-2 bg-transparent border border-primary text-foreground hover:#7d9fc0">Make Me Interesting 🌧️</button>

<script>
const intBtn = document.querySelector("#int-btn");
console.log(intBtn);

let interesting = false;

intBtn.addEventListener("click", function () {
  console.log('button clicked');

  if (interesting === false){
    document.documentElement.classList.add('int-style');
    interesting = true;
  } else if (interesting === true){
    document.documentElement.classList.remove('int-style');
    interesting = false;
  }

});
</script>

---

Leading up to submission I just worked on further fine-tuning the assignment. I've had a few more plus a last minute submission, bringing the total amount of work for the portfolio up to 11, plus my own so 12 in total.

I haven't made any large changes, only fine tuning in terms of aesthetic layout and usability, and adding the last few submissions into the webpage. I did move the project into a new repo though (I essentially duplicated the at2 repo template for at3), where I've found that it does run smoother and lags less in comparison when it comes to the playground page, especially once I change the folders from svg to png. I did also change the favicon, which I used a free online [favicon converter](https://favicon.io) to convert a png of a 3D star I've previously created on illustrator when I was experimenting with the 3D effects tool. Giving it a bit more of a personalised touch.

I also did do one more final version of the about section text to make it short and sharp.

### About Section (Final Ver)

This project is to create a response to [Lauren Lee McCarthy's](https://lauren-mccarthy.com/I-heard-TALKING-IS-DANGEROUS) project "I heard talking is dangerous". With the help of technology, Lauren reached out to and engaged with their community of friends during the time of lockdown, covid 19. Prompting interesting conversation over the then controversial topic of masks and social distancing.

**The aim of this project is to, in a similar fashion, engage with a chosen community of mine through creative coding.**

The community I've chosen to interact with are the creative friends around me. I have asked those around me that I know to be creatively inclined to share a piece of their creative selves with the aim to create one big collaborative portfolio that I can then share back with everyone.

**The portfolio is reflective of the creative network that stems from myself. I hope that by sharing this portfolio back with everyone they'll find something new and inspiring from the others to help their creative practice.**
**Fostering an interconnected creative network; mycelial creativity.**

---

# Video

In preparation of creating the video, I had gone through my old photos to search for creative works that had been made in collaboration with the other people in my community of practice over the years, along with filming a reaction clip of 2 friends who had also contributed to the projected after one of our classes we all had together. Other content I had screen recorded throughout the creation period of this whole project. A script was also prepared for the voice over of the video.

I did get some feedback from the friends which would have been really cool to implement, but unfortunately I don't think I'll have time to implement before the due date, but it did make me notice the mycelial nature of this community of practice when I wouldn't have before. And perhaps it could be something that I could add to the website portfolio after the semester is over and grading is done -- it's regarding the top bar with the apple logo / file, edit view etc. A friend was disappointed that the bar wasn't intractable, which honestly wasn't something I thought of, it was added more as part of the design aesthetic, rather than functionality. But I think it would've been cool to add the assignment brief I'm responding to in one of the tabs there and maybe a link to the blog.

Overall, it's been cool to witness the accumulative growth of the collaborative portfolio contents from my chosen community of practice, and I'm glad that I went with this idea in the end. c:

✸ background sound attribute : Music by cold winter breeze - chill out - https://thmatc.co/?l=3F87C14E

### Video Script

This is how I engaged with my community of practice in an attempt to give back to, and re-inspire those creatives around me by sharing work that is best representative of themselves as a creative.

I would describe my community of practice as the creatives around me that I've been able to connect with over the years and consider a friend, whether that be people that I've known for the past decade, or those as recent as the past semester in class. I know these are people who I often find exploring new ideas, mediums, cultures and possibilities through creative expression to develop their own identity as a person and creative. And are people that I individually share a mutual inspiration feedback loop with. It's sort of a curated collective of vastly different creative identities that I've made relations with over the years which is what makes this domain so interesting to bring together.

I've found this community to often hold high technical skill literacy, whether that be digital or analogue, and can often be found experimenting with merging the two. This community has a repertoire of cross-disciplinary practice with an open mind to collaboration, experimentation and failure to success. A bit more niche of an observation, is that I've found a lot of creatives who work with the digital have this common lived experience of an organised messy filing system, and often uses a mac machine. Which is where the inspiration for the interface and aesthetics of this portfolio comes from.

The values that often drive the interactions of the creative community as a whole, and the creative friends I have around me are often held in high authenticity with a constant curiosity to learn from our lived experiences and each other to improve our practice. I find that theres often a playfulness interacting with other creatives that sparks the creation of work that resonates emotionally with ourselves and others. I've found that this group also hold a higher regard for sustainability as a whole too, therefore I'd say the creative friends around me are very empathetic people.

Being a group with high digital literacy, I took advantage of that and I have kindly asked both in person and online, those with the spare time, and are willing to contribute at this point in time to submit a creative piece, as a digital submission via google forms. The google form has a small explanation of the project, and asks for other details such as a name, nickname and small bio attaining to themselves as a creative or the work they've shared itself. I thought the option to have yourself known in the project by a nickname was a great opportunity for people to share their personality as an individual on top of their work.

The creative submission was open to all types, and I was a bit worried due to the ill timing of this as everyone seems to be really busy, but the results didn't disappoint and the awe inspiring part was that some shared a different side of their creative practice that I wasn't aware of either. All in all, I got 11 submissions, plus one of my own, each very different in their own way, and really reflected the diversity in creative mediums, identity and personalities. Putting together the portfolio in the short time was both the hard and fun part of the project. The concept of this unconventional portfolio itself is a bit post-digital. Taking a traditional artefact and altering it to give it new meaning, and I thought I'd reflect this a bit in the aesthetic by merging the old school mac os system with a more modernised os system functionality and typography. I had started working on the webpage design on figma, before visualising it through coding in html, css and javascript. When I started, there had only been 2 submissions, and it was exciting to see the submission number grow alongside the building process. This project allowed me a chance to learn a bit more about web design and merging creative and functional coding in the form of a portfolio. And once I figured out the logistics on the landing page, it got a lot easier creating all the other pages since they follow a similar base layout.

I was able to meet up with and show it to a few people in time for submission. Being creatives themselves who had contributed to this project, it was exciting to share with them the other creatives' works in this project and hear their thoughts and ideas inspired by the other people's work.

Thank you to those who were able to contribute and I hope that through this project I was able to broker new connections and ideas with those in my creative network community; fostering mycelial creativity.

---

# Final AT3 Product

<iframe id="at3" src="https://sams4m-comm2747-at3.deno.dev/"></iframe>

<script type="module">

    const iframe  = document.getElementById (`at3`)
    iframe.width  = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
    iframe.height = iframe.width * 9 / 16 + 42

</script>

> The final project is best viewed at full screen in a [desktop web browser](https://sams4m-comm2747-at3.deno.dev/)

<iframe width="100%" height="500" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PFD3JBGcFFw?si=CtdLAP3XhdMn2xwF" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> Youtube Video on engaging with my Community of Practice through creative code.

---
